## Week 1: Researching existing datasets and methods.

  After looking into the [literature](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8682194) on signal classification using CNNs, I realized I would need a large number of classes to maintain fidelity the velocity of a hit to the drum. This presents a problem because it would be difficult to find a large enough dataset and training would take a lot of time. That is something I didnt realize before and I would like to avoid; hence, I propose a slightly different direction.

  I would like to use the current project to explore means of [positional sensing](https://www.drumforum.org/threads/positional-sensing.144907/) on an electronic drum. The basic idea behind it being the classification of multiple peizo-electric sensor ouputs accross time. When looking for literature on similar projects I found [this](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11314976/) paper where researchers used a few peizo sensors to map out patient's positions while sleeping.

I plan to apply some of the methods in this paper to my project.

  After this week's agile meeting professor bernardo and I decided to lean away from using neural networks for the position sensing; instead, hotspot detection via a 2d gaussian model seems more feasable given the nature of the input. Learning about the 2d gaussian function was interesting. It was fascinating to see where linear algebra came into play on the gaussian function:
```math
$$
f(x,\mu,\Sigma) = \frac{1}{\left(2\pi\right)^\frac{d}{2} |\Sigma|^\frac{1}{2}}\ 
\exp\left(-\tfrac{1}{2}(X-\mu)^\top \Sigma^{-1} (X-\mu)\right) 
$$
```
where:
- (k\) is the dimensionality,
- ($\mu$) is the mean vector,
- ($\Sigma$) is the positive-definite covariance matrix,
- ($|\Sigma|$) denotes the determinant of ($\Sigma$).
##### Note: Some of the formatting of this equation was generated by ChatGPT.

Once I visually saw how the function behaved by changing parameters it made more sense. 
  Working through fitting the model to our actual data we had to simplify the 2d guassian equation down to just the exponential function. once we did that the function could 
