
### Final Entry:
	I came to Professor Bernardo to investigate how AI could be used in DSP for electronic drums. At the start of the semester, he helped me develop a plan utilising gradient descent to estimate the position of a hit on a drum head. The rest of the first month of the semester, I spent learning about gradient descent. I did some practice problems using TensorFlow before moving on and successfully implementing positional estimation using multiple data points. I then learned about electronics enough to understand the diagrams given by an open-source project I used for reference. I proceeded to assemble the circuit and connect it to the microcontroller I planned for. I spent a good amount of time familiarising myself with the architecture and functionality of this microcontroller, focusing on the ADC and DMA. Finally, I programmed the microcontroller to retrieve the signals efficiently, setting it up for future DSP. Some of the biggest challenges I faced in this project were managing time to meet deadlines on topics I wasn't familiar with, familiarising myself with new libraries, switching between systems thinking and programming, and adapting plans due to unforeseen technical roadblocks. To overcome these challenges, I had to learn how to gauge how much knowledge was enough to accomplish a task, utilising resources such as documentation and tutorials, planning out system interactions through high-level diagrams and other visualisation tools and use them as a reference while implementing the system, and learning how to accept failure, and re-adjust my original plan to accommodate the unforseen circumstance. The tool not supporting gradient descent taught me an important lesson in flexibility, and revisiting all parts of my original plan when I change a fundamental part of it.
In the future, I plan to use a 3rd party library for DSP to extract the values needed for the positional sensing ML; furthermore, I would like to implement gradient descent on the microcotroller and finish the project in its entirety. This will be an exciting avenue to take to improve my understanding of embedded systems and the evolving field of AI.
